foreign
the greatest power that we have is to
then go I am that and whatever that is
is what we're defining ourselves to be
it's what our concept of self is and we
can Define ourselves in any way that we
want we can say I'm a filmmaker you know
I am healthy I am respected and once we
hold that state as our dominant State of
Consciousness over a period of time the
outer world will start to conform and
reflect that back to us
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease
foreign
everybody welcome back today I'm
speaking with a very special guest she
is the founder and CEO of one world
media who also happens to be producing
our podcast how are you doing today
Heather I'm doing really well thank you
for inviting me Brett yeah thanks for
joining us so could you tell me a little
bit about who you are and and what your
business is and what you've done in
business and in life to to get to this
point sure
um so I have been in Film Production for
pretty much my entire career however I
started in a much different area than
where I am today I started out working
in on the African continent and I was
working with a lot of ngos I worked with
the UN I mostly worked in areas of the
world that had been affected by War so
either areas of active combat or areas
where where refugees were currently
living and so I spent a lot of time
working with displaced populations and
recording their Journeys recording the
projects that were going on in the camp
and from there I transitioned into
Adventure film so I spent a couple of
years working all around the world in
Europe and in the US and in South
America filming with Adventure athletes
um and eventually I started my own
company one world media about eight
years ago and I've been running it ever
since we do a documentary film we also
do commercial work and other types of
film as well but we're best known for
our documentaries to give the audience a
little bit more context here Heather and
I have known each other since 2007
partially from the adventure sports
world that's how we met and also we
spent some time together in Africa
visited her in Zambia for a five-week
period while she had been there alone
for a year producing film for an NGO and
had a lot of really interesting
experiences that some of them might come
up in this podcast
having known Heather for 15 years I know
that like she and I have both had a lot
of different experiences where we
learned something really important about
ourselves sometimes in a very difficult
way and by going through a lot of pain
to get there and Heather I'm curious to
to hear one reflection that you have
that we'd like to focus on today
that really impacted your business and
your life that's a really good question
Brett I would have to say if I had to
distill it down into one sentence it
would be the sentence that I woke up to
um one morning in December during a
really difficult year for me I had had a
ton of health challenges I was dealing
with chronic illness and you know my my
company was in a very big transition
point
and at the same time I was starting to
come out of it I had learned a lot of
lessons and I had grown a lot was
feeling a lot more in my power and I
just woke up one morning with a sentence
in my head that said be your own light
and upon first glance like this sentence
is pretty self-explanatory but it means
something really specific to me um it
was a really important shift that I made
during the course of my healing journey
and it really impacted the way that I
showed up in the world and my ability to
reach my full potential be your own
light sounds like one of those things
you might see on cliche you know a mug
kind of thing that you might find at a
garage sale and it's also something that
it's the kind of phrase that people come
up with after having a really deep
experience and there's just it means
something way deeper than just those
words and as you mentioned it means
something specific to you and before we
get more deeply into that I'm curious to
talk a little bit about what your life
was like before you had this particular
recognition
that led to it so in the Years leading
up to this realization I had been
encountering several challenges at once
you know as I mentioned before I had
been working on the African continent
for nearly a decade at that point and
although it was really rewarding and it
gave me a lot of freedom to Define my
career and understand myself on a deeper
level due to the Independence that I had
in the situations that I faced it also
the territory came with a lot of stress
just inherently you know working in high
risk areas is inherently dangerous and
it requires you to be constantly
Vigilant of of your own safety and in
addition to that when you're working in
unstable regions you encounter a lot of
logistical difficulties as well so we
were constantly battling access to
resources you know and just um basic
living things for example you know not
having running water not having access
to regular power and so that cumulated
into a lot of unprocessed stress from my
very fast-paced career and I ended up
you know over time developing a chronic
illness because of that stress and I
also had uh was diagnosed with complex
PTSD which for people that don't know
that's post-traumatic stress disorder
and so I was dealing with a lot I I was
very burnt out and my body wasn't
functioning properly I was spending most
of my time in bed and additionally my
relationships weren't doing that well
and I wasn't sure why so you got to this
point where you started to feel cornered
in by the stress of life but it was
really just this deep low level stress a
lot of it coming from this complex PTSD
from from this time in Conflict zones
and also possibly whatever might have
occurred in your life that led you to be
attracted to conflict zones and
that might be something interesting to
double click on as well so how did it
start to Bubble Up in your mind or the
light bulb turn on be your own light and
what did that mean to you and what was
the alternative that you had been living
prior to that sure yeah so in order for
a realization to truly bubble up for me
in a meaningful way I had to truly hit
rock bottom and for me Rock Bottom not
just meant that things were bad but that
I had tried literally everything I could
to control it
um control used to work really well for
me because I'm a type a person you know
I'm very organized and I create
strategies that was my job for a long
time I you know part of my job was to
escort people safely from one town to
the next in areas of active combat and
so you basically your job in in that
sort of situation is to control the
uncontrollable because it's very
important that you do so and I found a
lot of ways to manipulate my outer World
in order to make things safe in order to
get my job done and I think that hitting
rock bottom for me meant that there was
a situation that I was in which was my
chronic illness that just would not
relent no matter what I did I tried to
do everything right you know I tried to
clean up my health I tried to meditate
to see a therapist to resolve my PTSD I
tried just about everything even just
relaxing for months in bed thinking that
if I rested enough it would just go away
unfortunately that wasn't the case and I
was relying so much on the outer world
including my outer body to in order to
have a sense of Safety and Security and
it just wasn't happening for me
and so I think that when you get to that
place
demoralizing is is a very nice way to
put it but I think that I just
I just sort of gave up because even
someone who's super motivated if they
try hard enough to get out of this cage
that they're in and it just won't relent
eventually they'll just relax into it
and they and they don't know what the
next step is when everything you try to
do fails I think that the shift that
happened for me was that I realized that
nothing on my out in my outer world was
going to change my situation and that I
couldn't
wait on something to come from outside
to save me it just wasn't going to
happen and also in addition to that I
realized that I might never have proper
functioning of my outer physical body
again because of the severity of my
chronic illness and so I realized that
even my having a sense of self that
relied on having a functioning Able Body
was not necessarily something that was
going to be beneficial for me or
reliable for me something you just
talked about like being able to control
your environment you'd learned that like
control is something that had worked for
you in Conflict zones and something that
we've talked about before is that
there's a subtlety there where you're
never really in control of a conflict
Zone there's actually there's more of a
flow identifying what you can control
and then quickly changing and
determining what else you might be able
to what else might be in your control as
the situation moves and evolves and
there's a certain amount of faith and
willpower there and you know having a
goal and then there's a certain amount
of just reading the river and seeing
seeing where it goes and it sounds like
what you're describing here is that even
that process started to get stopped up
when your body was no longer responding
in the way that you were expecting and
your interface to your environment was
no longer responding the way that you're
expecting and that took you into a
deeper deeper level of
flowing and that seems to maybe point at
the at the realization that you had and
can you talk to me a little bit about
what that realization felt like when
when it occurred so I realized after
being disempowered for years and years
of wanting a functioning body and
waiting for it to get better and having
it not get better to you know having
quality relationships in my life in
certain areas that just weren't coming
in at the time and like waiting for
those relationships to really validate
me and to you know and to basically tell
me that that I am loved I am cherished
I'm I get all of these things I'm
looking to all these outer markers I
realized that that I was going to have
to be my own light that I was going to
have to generate that from within in
order to see it without and I don't mean
that in a poetic way I mean that in an
actual literal way that was the the
Nuance of the realization was not just
that this is a quote to put me in a
happy space but it's an actual reality
that if I don't don't first give myself
the feeling of being loved and cherished
if I don't feel that way within then No
One's Gonna Come From without and
validate what what I'm not appropriating
in myself and the same thing for for
health because I was I was embodying
such a state of of illness there was a
point in my illness where I couldn't
remember the last time that I felt happy
or healthy I mean just even having the
feelings for a small thing I I spent
most of my waking hours having thoughts
beliefs and feelings that only validated
being sick and alone and so that
realization of being my own light made
me realize that in order to have
consistent positive results in my outer
world I needed to start stabilizing my
inner environment and being consistently
my own light and giving myself these
things that I wanted to see on the
outside can you zoom in a little bit
more on what you mean by stabilizing
your inner world what was the subjective
experience that you had had when you
know you're laying in your bed and you
only were seeing evidence for how sick
you were and
this was the reality that was
continually being reinforced by your
nervous system what was that first
moment of the subjective experience of
something different uh that allowed you
to start giving yourself your own love
that's a really good question I would
say that the symptoms got so severe that
uh initially you know it kind of came
from a place of dissociation full
disclosure I didn't really want to be
completely present to my outer
experience but ended up being a blessing
in disguise and so what I would do is I
would just shut out the outer world
because what was happening for me wasn't
desirable whatsoever and I would go into
this this Inner Space this very
meditative space sort of like the state
that you're in right before you fall
asleep and I would start imagining
what it feels like to be to have stable
health and to to be surrounded by
quality people doing a job that
completely fulfilled me and that didn't
drain me at all just like just for fun
you know just kind of trying it on the
way someone would try on a new suit
and at first that suit felt really
uncomfortable because it felt unfamiliar
um and I started small but it sort of
just it the whole process piqued my
interest because it was like I said
originally somewhat of an escape but as
I started doing it day after day that
suit began to feel more comfortable and
I started to feel more at home in it and
and it started to shift my entire
a state of consciousness and concept of
self to that of what I was imagining
myself to be rather than that which I
currently was yes it sounds almost as
though the the way that you had been
experiencing yourself in the world was
also a suit and there's there's a way
that you were changing suits or maybe
just removing one suit and seeing what
was what was underneath it and seeing
what it would be like to see yourself
to correct me if I'm wrong but it sounds
it sounds almost as though there was a
suit that was installed by your past
experience in this complex PTSD and
you're exploring what was underneath it
does that sound accurate at all yeah
it's a little bit of both so I think
that there is
um so that's a good segue into sort of
me explaining exactly what being your
own light is because I feel that all of
us have this unconditioned Consciousness
that we're born with you know when we're
born as babies we aren't you know
filmmakers or podcasters we're just
awareness we're just Consciousness and
you know maybe you could say we're a
loving Consciousness because I do
believe when you look at children who
haven't been who haven't experienced
adverse conditions their natural
inclination is to love and be connected
so there is that that Essence which I
could call my I amness it's an awareness
and I think that the most
that the greatest power that we have is
to then go I am that and whatever that
is is what we're defining ourselves to
be it's what our concept of self is and
we can Define ourselves in any way that
we want we can say I'm a filmmaker you
know I am healthy I am respected
I am lonely I am alone we're free to
choose whatever we want to Define
ourselves as and once we hold that state
as our dominant State of Consciousness
over a period of time the outer world
will start to conform and reflect that
back to us is what I discovered in my
journey yeah it also even sounds like
there's an aspect of falling more in
love with the Part of Yourself the
identity of yourself as ill as sick like
recognizing that even that part
is you and
that it doesn't fully Define you it's
just a part of your experience and that
it's not the whole thing yeah I think
that that's a that's a very important
part of integrating these parts of
ourselves that are wounded is to love
those those parts
um because I think that that part comes
from an unconscious
aspect of ourselves that hasn't been
integrated from an earlier adverse
experience and it will keep showing up
for us until we you know bring light to
it again being your own light shedding
light on it and and acknowledging it and
then reintegrating it into our system
and I think that's a really important
thing and in addition to that I think
it's just important to to realize the
power that we have in our I am and our
ability to choose because a lot of times
it feels like life is choosing for us
but what I've what I've discovered is
that that we do we we do choose what our
I am is and if we hold strongly and
steadily in any I am it will it will
start being projected into our outer
reality obviously if I say you know I am
secure but then that lasts about five
minutes and I go back into my into my
State of Mind of not feeling secure and
not feeling loved that will that you
know I haven't held on to it long enough
for it to really to really take effect
but if I hold on to any state of
consciousness for long enough
um it will eventually start shifting my
dominant State entirely and and it
changes you know the that is the ego
portion of our unconditioned
Consciousness it's what makes us into
the to the personalities that we are and
it's very you know it's very malleable
it's not as fixed as people think
because it's only fixed whenever there's
there's some charge behind it that we're
unwilling to look at it sounds like the
journey you're describing here is
becoming more aware of all the different
possible Iams we can be
as different suits that we can wear and
take them on and put them off at will
exactly or just as the situation calls
without even having to invoke our will
just to see what happens I think a lot
of this really like Harkens back to what
you've described in active conflict
zones or in adventure sports and being
in the flow being in the the place of
trusting yourself for me when I walk a
slack line for example one of the ways
that I like to describe walking a
slackline is that to learn to walk a
slackline is to learn all the different
ways to fall off and how to bring
yourself back from the edge of each one
of them
and there's a certain uh symmetry there
to our identity too I think that there
can be a common misconception that
you know that our belief creates a
reality so if we only believe the things
that we want to believe about ourselves
then that will create the reality that
we want but that can also put us into a
into a trap or create shadows and that
this this process that you're describing
is really
Breaking Free of any particular
self-concept and then loving more and
more of who you might find yourself to
be in any moment exactly and just
realizing that you have the power to do
that too because I think that it's easy
so for example if you came from a
wealthy household it's easy to have the
I am concept of I am secure you know I
am abundant but if you came from a less
wealthy background then
trying on that suit's not going to feel
so natural at first and I think that my
message to the world you know if I if I
could distill it into this the sentence
by being your own light is knowing that
you have that no matter what your
current outer circumstances are whether
you know this shift is going to be a
little one or if it if it feels so
far-fetched that you can barely
imaginate yourself being financially
abundant is that if you are able to
stabilize your inner World enough in
order to shift your I am to a different
self-concept over time what I've
discovered not just through my health
but through many different suits or
self-concepts is that it will eventually
take hold and it will start showing
results in the outer world but it just
has to be consistent and so in order for
it to be consistent you have to be your
own light you can't you can't rely on
getting a big paycheck in order to feel
abundant you know because you might be
in a does a financial desert there might
not be anything going on or you might be
so sick like I was that you can't get
out of bed and I had to teach myself how
to to hold the state of feeling healthy
even under those circumstances which
were extremely trying but I do feel like
it I feel that it's a powerful message
to to share that it's possible to
actually shift your self-concept from
within to be your own light without
having to receive validation from the
outer World in order to start making
that shift and they're therefore seeing
the changes that you want to see yeah
yeah it sounds like what you're talking
about is really deprogramming a lot of
these Concepts that we learn about
ourselves from the outer world and going
back into that childhood not even that
childhood that babyhood love that we
just are that Consciousness that
awareness yeah exactly it's a it's a
deprogramming but not through through
mental gymnastics so to say you know I
don't think that it's a matter of I did
do a lot of healing work and I did get
to a root of a lot of my living beliefs
but that's not what this necessarily was
it wasn't a mental exercise at all it
was shutting out my outer experience
getting to the state of New neutrality
of just this dark beginning that we all
came from and then imagining myself in
this new state so that I could catch the
feeling of it because you know the
feeling doesn't necessarily mean an
emotion you know like for example
wealthy people are not happy all the
time and so if you want to imagine
yourself as abundant you I don't think
that it's you know making sure that
you're feeling happy and upbeat all the
time at all but it's just how would a
wealthy person feel as they move
throughout their day and what sort of
thoughts would they have positive and
negative you know and so I started just
imagining myself to try on the suit to
catch that feeling of what would it feel
like if I didn't have to constantly
worry about my health and that was all
just stable and I realized I wouldn't be
having all these thoughts I would be you
know feel I just caught the essence of
it and it's really hard to describe
other than
then you know just through
imagining feeling it to the point where
you start to actually catch as if you
already were it before it's actually
being shown to you in your outer world I
want to hear a little bit more then
about how having had this this deeper
reflection which of course is so many of
the reflections that we have in our life
are that we they're things that we've
learned all along in newer and deeper
ways and a lot of what you described in
this in this Epiphany was actually very
related to many of the ways that you
moved around in the world being a
Founder being
and adventure sports athlete being a
documentary filmmaker as a female in
Africa alone in Conflict zones
how has that deepened your relationship
with yourself and your your work and
your flow in the world having had this
this experience and come through it it's
made me much more authentic and much
more
able to stand in my Integrity because I
no longer look for validation from
others or from Outer circumstances I
decide who I want to be and what state
I'm embodying and it's a totally
internal process so I feel completely
liberated I don't feel like I'm at the
mercy of circumstances even when they're
adverse because I know from experience
from doing this so many times that
whenever I hold my inner World study the
outer world will eventually reflect it
even if it's not in the moment and so
for example maybe I'm finding a
situation where I might be traveling as
I often do for work and I'm unable to
connect with people the way that I want
to and so I'm feeling a little bit
lonely in the past I I was sort of
embodying the state of loneliness and
also just hoping that someone would show
up in my life to relieve me of that but
what I do now is I go into my inner
space and I get into the state of being
connected and being supported by others
I imagine even though I don't have it in
the moment in my outer world I imagine
what that feels like and and it feels so
warm and fuzzy and just fulfilling and I
get that state in me and then I just
hold it and because I'm able to
cultivate that feeling for myself I'm
not addicted to any sort of outer you
know Band-Aid or fix to to relieve me of
my loneliness and I walk through my day
without discomfort because I'm
cultivating that Interstate independent
of the outer circumstances and
inevitably someone will come up to me
and strike a conversation and before I
know it you know I'm having a deep
conversation with a stranger and we're
exchanging numbers and you know planning
another adventure together
I find it interesting that you've used a
couple of times the word holding steady
internally and the way that you just
described that was you know like holding
internally this the feeling of that I am
connected and I I feel like in in order
to do that you have to be it's actually
not very stable there's actually changes
going on internally and and part of that
is grieving the feeling of not having
been connected like in order in order to
want something that we don't have
there's a you have to kind of feel the
not having and feel through that enough
to feel the want and enough to feel the
other alternate reality and that there's
actually something
like profoundly shifting in even that
that description of holding study is
that there's actually something going on
moving emotionally inside you does that
sound accurate so what I've discovered
is that the holding study for me comes
first but what it does okay so there's a
bridge that leads me from holding steady
to actually seeing it in my outer
reality and that bridge is sort of what
I like to call The Purge and so if I am
holding steady and my feeling of like
let's let's use a different example
let's do something that anyone can
relate to which is relationships
romantic relationships you know everyone
wants to feel loved and stable
romantically no one wants to feel in
limbo or that they're you know they're
in a hot and cold situation and so it's
a great example but most of us still
have a lot of strong feelings both both
positive and negative that are often
churning inside us when we get
romantically involved with another
person and so what I would do is I would
stabilize the state of you know imagine
that I already have my life partner that
we are old we're you know we're sitting
in a rocking chair 80 years old and
we're smiling back on the last 50 years
of our life and so I every morning I
embody that state I get into it by
imagining it and then I hold it and what
happens when I hold it is that it
initiates a purge of all of these
contradicting beliefs that I'm holding
inside myself that contradict the state
that I'm trying to shift to and so what
happens is all these fears and doubts
will Bubble Up well you know I'm about
to turn 40 what if I what if I'm alone
in another five years you know and like
oh but people aren't reliable and
they're constantly fickle and like it's
this sort of maelstrom of thoughts and
and difficult emotions that end up
coming up but the more that I Hold
Steady in that state and I don't allow
it to sway me back into my former
disempowered State they come up and they
get processed and then they release out
and then almost like a storm in the
ocean you know that at Sea it will calm
itself back out again eventually until
the next wave hits and I continue doing
that until there are no more waves and
it just is a natural dominant state it
sounds a lot like what you're describing
is gratitude
holding yourself in gratitude perhaps a
pre-gratitude for
for what you imagine might come to your
life and just being grateful for
that this can be you or yeah or that it
is you I would say you know yeah well I
think gratitude is a great way to
describe it because you aren't thankful
for something that you're not sure that
you have right and so you can know that
you actually are embodying the state as
the new you not as a potential new you
you know I feel like that's not quite it
but once you get actually get into the
state and you're like no now this is how
I am now and this is what I did with my
illness I just decided I said I am
healthy like this is who I am and I know
that my body is going to eventually
reflect it because I completely
disidentified with illness and I had
identified with illness for most of my
life so this is really challenging at
first
um to switch from dominant States but I
think that you know that you're getting
close and that you're almost there when
you start feeling gratitude because it's
like when someone gives you a gift you
know and you're holding it in your hands
and you know it's yours then you're
gonna start feeling really thankful for
it yeah I think what you were describing
with that purging process too is very
interesting as well like when when I
imagine first trying this out and and
being grateful for let's imagine that
somebody's talking about a romantic
relationship and so they're feeling
lonely and so they try this thing and
they're like okay I'm just going to feel
grateful for having the partner that I
want and that might go really specific
that might be like it's going to be a
blonde who's six foot five inches and
like into these this and that thing and
check all these other boxes and you know
that might not actually lead to that
person coming into their lives because
that just might be way too specific but
feeling feeling the Gratitude deeper
under that just for wow I'm a human who
can be connected and the awareness
underneath everything else that is me is
connection and love and feeling that
leads to that state of being that
attracts Partners definitely gratitude
is a lovely state to be in just in
general because I feel that gratitude is
the closest to love you know it's a very
open and receptive State and also a
state that minimizes resistance as well
which I think that is resistance in its
Essence is fear you know so when when
fear is your dominant state which I
think illness is a form of resistance it
is a form of fear have being
in the state of identifying with illness
it's it's being afraid of constantly as
I was and understandably because I was
experiencing PTSD at the time I think
that gratitude really is that state of
surrender of of allowing the process to
happen and and knowing that you already
have it even if you don't see it yet
yeah I think you could have a similar
a similar self-concept of being
unlovable or of being incompetent or of
being unwealthy or of being insecure
like being an insecure partner in
relationships like having that belief
well that's very fear-based you know I
think the reason why we're insecure is
because we don't know when the ball's
gonna drop and you know we're assuming
that the ball is gonna drop right and so
we're waiting for it to happen we're
trying to protect ourselves in advance
and and
and all the while stymieing the love
that may be very well trying to come in
so it's very self-sabotaging and I was
in that space for a long time so I have
a lot of empathy for it
um but I also know that it is possible
to move past these things
um in essence when you're when you are
being your own light it's like being
perched on a Ledge you know and if if
you're pushed on a precarious ledge of a
branch of a tree for example you're
always going to be wondering is this
Branch going to hold me or is it going
to break am I going to fall 100 feet to
the ground you know but but birds don't
worry about that because they trust in
their wings you know like if the branch
breaks then they're just gonna fly away
they're not going to be harmed and I
think this being your own light business
is about
about growing your own wings so that you
can put yourself on the edge and be
vulnerable without getting into that
fear-based space of insecurity because
you're so secure within yourself to be
able to provide everything that you need
that even if it doesn't work out even if
the worst happens and someone betrays
you or just you know completely leaves
you hanging you can still fly away and
it doesn't mean it's not going to sting
but it's not going to decimate you
interesting there's there's another
thing that you mentioned earlier that
I'm I'm curious about where you had said
admittedly this was partly dissociation
and two parts that are interesting to me
part of it is that there's something to
admit about having dissociated
and then there's also something
interesting about just dissociation as
having been a part of this process that
was a healthy process for you yeah and I
think it's very common that especially
in emotional development circles or in
you know spiritual practices that
dissociation has sort of a negative
connotation that it's leading you away
from the source of your awareness and it
also just seems that in this case and
maybe in many other cases that it was
actually a tool that allowed you to feel
safe enough internally to try this try
on this other suit and see what another
self-concept might feel like a
dissociation is a double-edged sword so
dissociation is is what gave me my PTSD
it's sort of what PTSD is when you allow
enough of emotional content to build up
in your you know in your nervous system
by dissociating that it actually just
manifests into a full uh blown a
psychological condition and physical
disorder and so but I will say that
dissociation is boomerang because it
it's not just going to keep getting
worse and worse and worse and worse to
no end what it does is it gets worse
until you hit rock bottom and then it
actually propels you into the completely
opposite direction because as I said
before
I had been dissociating for years and it
had been quote unquote working until it
wasn't anymore and then it made me
really sick but that sickness forced me
in bed and then my last resort of
dissociation was actually
blocking out all of this mess that I had
sort of created for myself and allowing
me to get into a neutral space in order
to redefine myself and to re-identify
with the things that I actually wanted
to experience and start disidentifying
with the things that I had created for
myself that I no longer wanted to be
something that's really striking me
about the way that you speak of this is
that I detect that you have come to a
love and acceptance for that whole part
of your journey for the dissociation and
for the rock bottom that you hit and
that really I do feel from you gratitude
for all of it and I feel like that's
really an important component of this of
this being your own light this is the
practice that you're
that you're talking about it definitely
is and I and I don't think it's
something that can be forced because if
you had told me two years ago to be
grateful or not that I not that I should
but that I should consider it maybe
I would have you know I probably would
have reacted badly to that because I was
in I was in the throes of it and I think
it's also important to realize where
you're at when you're in the throes of
it sometimes you can't be grateful for
it and that's totally okay because even
that is part of the process gratitude is
something that should always come
naturally and it does if you just see
the process through
you know and and it should never be
forced but just like keep stepping is
how it was for me you know just keep
taking steps and eventually it just rose
up in me naturally I didn't try to be
grateful for anything I just was because
I finally it's like the the clouds clear
when you enter them you know when you're
flying in a plane you know and so when
you're before you enter those clouds
they still look scary and it's not
something that you can relax into and be
grateful for but after you enter the
cloud and then fly out the other side
you have this greater perspective and
you're able to naturally have the
gratitude for your experiences that got
you there yeah it sounds like what
you're describing there is rather than
sort of having a top-down imposition of
gratitude which could just feel
tyrannical to parts of your system that
are not feeling it what you were doing
was really looking for the gratitude
that was there and cultivating that and
drawing that up and letting that
transform you from within exactly and I
never throughout my entire Journey even
in changing these states attempted to
control my emotions I think that that
that's that's a form of resistance and
that that actually slows the entire
process down I always allowed myself to
feel or not feel whatever was naturally
occurring but I but what I did control
again was was getting into the state of
imagining what it would feel like not
emotionally but just
the sense the vibe of what it would feel
like to be healthy to be abundant you
know which like I said is sort of it's
not dependent on emotions emotions can
flow through all of those experiences
you know rich people are just as unhappy
as poor people are in certain instances
but so it's not about controlling your
emotions more just reimagining yourself
as almost like a new role like you're
it's like a character that you play you
know because like we are we are that
Essence but we are also the characters
it's it's a unified whole that it comes
with The Human Experience beautiful
beautifully said
so to close this episode out I'd just
like to ask you where do you see one
world media and your craft headed and
what is most exciting to you in life
right now what's most exciting for me in
life right now is to create films that
are more authentic and are that are more
in line with this new sense of self that
I have that I've cultivated
intentionally and I feel that processing
these difficult emotions help to release
the bondage of these of these weird
attachments that I had to projects that
weren't completely aligned and it
allowed me to remove those projects from
my life and really create a wide space
for new projects projects that you know
related to
people that have gone through a similar
journey of self-discovery and also just
trying to illustrate things in the world
that are
that are beautiful and that are good and
that are happening right now that
basically to say that that it not All Is
Lost right now because I know it's such
a difficult time I think there's a lot
of beauty that's being created in the
world right now and something is being
born and I would love to be the one to
tell those stories beautiful well I'd
love to tell them with you and thank you
so much for for producing this podcast
and I'm really looking forward to
continuing working with you and telling
more of these stories likewise
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]